---
title: The Sphere of Identity
date: "2024-08-23"
preview: There is a strong analogy that will help you find your Identity. Let's talk about it.
---
<script>
  import IdentitySphere from '$lib/components/IdentitySphere.svelte';
</script>

Dear MW,

As far as I can tell, there are two places your Identity comes from. You can imagine them as two halves of a sphere. In this analogy, your experience lies at the border between those two halves, or hemispheres.

<IdentitySphere />

As you march along the edge of the sphere, both of these points work together to help you build a model of yourself and your environment that you can act on. When you act on that model, your behavior is converted into your Identity. I like to call this process *Expression*.

When you express, your experience changes. You then get (many) opportunities to evaluate your experience and update your model accordingly. *Cest la vie*.

Over time, certain aspects of your model might change, but in general, it will converge to some negotiation between the two poles of Identity:

### __The Objective Self__
This is what you 'know' to be 'True'. It comes from experiences that can be measured, shared, verified, etc. It is a record of the things you know about everything there is to know. While that may seem like an awful lot, you will become better at organizing and integrating what you know as you experience more and evaluate that experience. You will begin to realize how little you know, and perhaps even more unsettling, how little we *each* know. If that seems contrary to the accomplishments of humanity, remember that it is only together that the world got to be this way. Knowing a lot about the processes that cause your experience is a great power and a great responsibility. You can do far more with the Truth than you can from Ignorance or simply not knowing. Your Truth will be your Map on your journey around the edge of the Sphere.

If you want to travel the 'Western Territories' of your Identity, you will need to become somewhat of a cartographer. You will need to learn to keep track of the details and write about your observations. You will likely find yourself speaking the language of Mathematics at one time or another. You will almost certainly visit the Great Wall of Physics and the Specific Ocean (where all of the world's data lives). These are great places to visit at any time of year, just be sure to bring a towel.

### __The Subjective Self__
This is what you 'intuit' to be 'Meaningful'. This is a feature of your mind that you might have more difficulty utilizing at first. You were never one to accept the notion of Meaning which was prescribed to you. Don't fret or fear; you will make your own notion of Meaning and come to see that this is a good and unique thing. Your unique notion of meaning is an important part of who you are because it comes from your experiences and the stories and experiences that you glean from others through literature, television, movies, relationships, and every other piece of Culture. You live in an extremely diverse environment with millions of stories waiting to be told to you on demand!

You will need a strong Compass for navigating this environment or it will be easy to become overwhelmed. The strange thing about this Compass is that it built into you. You may be able to catch glimpses as to how it works every now and then, but it will mostly take you by surprise. That's okay! Learn to trust your Compass. If it ever seems to lead you astray, you can remember a few things that will bring you back on track.

-- Your Compass works best when you use it with the Map (Truth and Meaning work best together).

-- Your Compass follows the magnetic field generated by Love... If you find yourself lost, you might be stuck in a Magnetic Anomaly, a local variation that disrupts the Love Magnetic Field. Remember that there exists a great Love that always points the same direction. If you can find a North Star, something that tells you which way is Love when your compass doesn't work, you can find your way.

### Wayfinding the Identity Sphere
The important thing to remember is that your notion of Meaning and Truth are as influential to your expression as you make them. You will find your way in the world most effectively if you learn to use both.
